---
layout: post
title:  "Running your own pkgsite, pt1"
date:   2025-01-03 01:55:23 -0600
categories: 
toc: true
---

## Who this is for

I've recently joined Netflix, and I'm doing a bit of Go. Go is not one of the
main languages at Netflix, so it lacks a dedicated team supporting it, and lacks
some common tooling.

I've been particularly missing
[x/pkgsite](https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/pkgsite) - the documentation server
behind [pkg.go.dev](https://pkg.go.dev/).

Netflix has a private enterprise GitHub repository and a corresponding private
[module proxy](https://go.dev/ref/mod#module-proxy), so the public pkgsite
doesn't index it. So, I set out to figure out how to run my own instance of
pkgsite against this private repo & module proxy.

Though pkgsite is open source, there's no documentation for running it yourself
(probably for good reasons). So, this article is for anyone who wants to do
something similar.

## Components

First of all, pkgsite is canonically hosted at https://go.googlesource.com/pkgsite
and can be cloned with `git clone https://go.googlesource.com/pkgsite`.

Let's look at the important components that we're going to be dealing with.
Here's a selective look with `tree`:

```sh
$ tree
.
|____cmd
| |____frontend
| | |____main.go
| |____pkgsite
| | |____main.go
| |____worker
| | |____main.go
|____migrations
| |____000073_create_documentation_symbols.down.sql
| |____000018_add_module_version_states_status_index.up.sql
| |____...etc...
|____devtools
| |____cmd
| | |____seeddb
| | | |____seed.txt
| | | |____main.go
```

So, the main programs we'll run are the frontend, worker, seeddb, and
cmd/pkgsite - the latter of which I'll refer to as such to disambiguate with
pkgsite, the overall project. The migrations directory hold all the .sql files
needed to set up a postgres database that other components deal with.

Let's quickly describe each:

- **cmd/pkgsite**: The simplest and best documented. Running this lets you host
a minimal pkgsite. It's not connected to a database and doesn't have a worker
searching for modules. So, it doesn't have a usable search feature. It's useful
for looking at one or two of your own projects but without search, it's not good
enough for an entire org.
- **frontend**: The web-serving frontend. When run, serves the frontend at
`localhost:8080`.
- **worker**: The data-fetching backend that updates the database. When run,
serves a work management page at `localhost:8000`.
- **migrations**: A series of sql scripts that when run in order will set up
all the necessary tables and schemas.
- **seeddb**: A one-shot program that reads a `seed.txt` file, fetches modules
listed there-in, and populates the database with the information.

## Modifiable config

The frontend and worker both use `internal/config/serverconfig/config.go`, which
is modifiable with environment variables. Let's look at a subset of important
environment variables that you may want to change when running these programs:

```
# Proxy config.
ProxyURL:   GetEnv("GO_MODULE_PROXY_URL", "https://proxy.golang.org"),

# Database config.
DBHost:               chooseOne(GetEnv("GO_DISCOVERY_DATABASE_HOST", "localhost")),
DBUser:               GetEnv("GO_DISCOVERY_DATABASE_USER", "postgres"),
DBPassword:           os.Getenv("GO_DISCOVERY_DATABASE_PASSWORD"),
DBSecondaryHost:      chooseOne(os.Getenv("GO_DISCOVERY_DATABASE_SECONDARY_HOST")),
DBPort:               GetEnv("GO_DISCOVERY_DATABASE_PORT", "5432"),
DBName:               GetEnv("GO_DISCOVERY_DATABASE_NAME", "discovery-db"),
```

The proxy URL in particular we'll need to change, since the point of this
project is to run against our own private module proxy. We'll get into that a
bit later on, but for now just know these exist.

## Running a simple pkgsite

To wrap up this post, let's quickly look at how to run a simple pkgsite:



## Next up

In a next post, we'll look at how to set up your postgres database and how to
seed it with seeddb.

After that, we'll finally take a look at how to run worker and frontend in order
to serve your own pkgsite.